.. default-intersphinx:: reviewbot1.0


==============================
Review Bot 1.0.1 Release Notes
==============================

**Release date**: July 31, 2018


New Features
============

* Allow forcing the language for cppcheck (:bug:`4717`).

  :ref:`tool-cppcheck` will default to treating ``.h`` files as C, which will
  show errors if they're actually C++. You can now force a cppcheck integration
  configuration to use a specific language.

  Patch by André Klitzing.

* Added full-repository tool support for Mercurial repositories.

  Some tools (such as the ``clang`` static analyzer) need to run on the full
  repository instead of individual files. This requires Review Bot to create a
  checkout of the repository. Review Bot can now check out Mercurial
  repositories in addition to Git.

  Patch by André Klitzing.


Bug Fixes
=========

* Increased the worker detection timeout.

  If a worker node took more than 2 seconds to reply, the detection step in the
  Review Bot extension configuration page would fail. This timeout has been
  increased to 10 seconds to allow slower nodes to reply.

* Fixed worker API authentication when running with Review Board 3.0.8+.

  Some internal changes in Review Board 3.0.8 broke the creation of session
  keys for the worker to authenticate to the API.

* Fixed errors in integration configuration when a tool was not selected
  (:bug:`4713`).

  Attempting to save an integration configuration without selecting a tool would
  fail without displaying an error message.

  Patch by Joshua Cannon.

* Fixed reporting of internal errors in flake8 (:bug:`4710`).

  If :ref:`tool-flake8` failed with an internal error, it would report the tool
  as having passed. These errors are now properly shown.

  Patch by Joshua Cannon.

* Fixed result reporting for cpplint (:bug:`4671`).

  The :ref:`tool-cpplint` tool had some bugs preventing it from properly
  reporting results. These have been fixed.

  Patch by Sujeevan Rasaratnam.

* Fixed clean-up of temporary files (:bug:`4640`).

  Temporary files were not being properly deleted after each tool run.


Contributors
============

* André Klitzing
* David Trowbridge
* Joshua Cannon
* Sujeevan Rasaratnam
