.. default-intersphinx:: reviewbot3.0


============================
Review Bot 3.0 Release Notes
============================

**Release date**: March 29, 2022


Compatibility
=============

Review Bot 3.0 includes full support for Review Board 3.0 and 4.0, and
Python 2.7 and 3.6 through 3.10.


New Features
============

Official Docker Images
----------------------

We now have official :ref:`Docker images <installation-docker>` for Review Bot
workers. Going forward, all releases (including betas) will come with Docker
images, ready for testing or deployment in your network.

The base image (:docker:`beanbag/reviewbot-base`) can be used to easily build
your own workers with exactly the tools you need. We also offer pre-built
images containing tools for various languages.

See the :ref:`documentation <installation-docker>` to get started.


JSON Management of Repositories
-------------------------------

The list of repositories or Review Board servers for :ref:`full repository
access <worker-configuration-repositories>` can now be managed in external
JSON files, using the :ref:`repositories_config_path
<worker-configuration-repositories-json>` and
:ref:`reviewboard_servers_config_path
<worker-configuration-reviewboard-servers-json>` settings.

This is used by the new Docker images, and can help larger organizations
better manage their available list of repositories through in-house
automation.


Improved Worker Experience
--------------------------

The Review Bot worker is built on Celery_, and the command line and startup
screen mostly identified as Celery, making for a less-than-optimal experience.
It also required running :command:`reviewbot worker` as the command.

Now, you simply run :command:`reviewbot`, without the ``worker`` parameter,
to start up Review Bot. The command line options are tailored for our use,
rather than Celery's.

When starting up, Review Bot will log information about the available tools
and repositories that can be used by that particular worker. The old Celery
information is no longer displayed.


.. _Celery: https://www.celeryproject.org/


New Worker Configuration Options
--------------------------------

The Review Bot worker now provides new options for configuring
:ref:`tool paths <worker-configuration-exe-paths>` and
:ref:`cookie storage locations <worker-configuration-cookies>`.

Some of these replace legacy options, which will stop working in Review Bot 4.
See :ref:`upgrading` for instructions.

The location of the configuration file can also be changed by setting the
:envvar:`REVIEWBOT_CONFIG_FILE` environment variable.


New Tools
---------

* :ref:`tool-cargotool`

  This tool can check Rust source code for errors and suspicious constructs.

  It supports running :command:`cargo clippy` to perform lint checks on files,
  and :command:`cargo test` to run unit test suites.

  This requires :ref:`full repository access
  <worker-configuration-repositories>`.

  Based on a patch by Jacob Blazusiak.

* :ref:`tool-rbsecretscanner`

  This in-house tool checks source code and configuration files for any
  accidental inclusion of credentials or access keys. This can scan for the
  following:

  * AWS Access, KWS, and Secret keys
  * Asana access tokens
  * Discord bot tokens and webhook URLs
  * Dropbox tokens
  * Facebook access tokens
  * GitHub OAuth tokens (legacy and modern)
  * Google Cloud API keys, client IDs, and service accounts
  * Heroku API keys
  * JSON Web Tokens
  * Mailchimp API keys
  * Mailgun API keys
  * NPM access tokens
  * PGP private keys
  * PyPI API tokens
  * RSA private keys
  * SSH private keys
  * SSL certificates
  * Slack tokens and webhook URLs
  * Stripe access keys
  * Twilio API keys and account SIDs
  * Twitter OAuth tokens

  Based on a patch by Cecilia Wei.

* :ref:`tool-fbinfer`

  This tool from Facebook checks source code from a wide variety of
  programming languages, looking for many different kinds of issues.

  It can handle a number of build systems, such as Make, Gradle, Ant,
  XCode, and more.

  It's a heavier-weight tool, requiring proper configuration. It also requires
  :ref:`full repository access <worker-configuration-repositories>`.

  Based on a patch by Jacob Blazusiak.

* :ref:`tool-gofmt`

  This tool checks Go source code for common formatting issues. If it finds
  a file that needs to be run through :command:`go fmt`, it will leave a
  comment recommending that the user runs this and re-uploads the diff.,

  Based on a patch by Jacob Blazusiak.

* :ref:`tool-gotool`

  This tool checks Go source code for problems.

  It supports running :command:`go vet` to perform lint checks on files,
  and :command:`go test` to run unit test suites.

  This tool requires :ref:`full repository access
  <worker-configuration-repositories>`.

  Based on a patch by Jacob Blazusiak.

* :ref:`tool-rubocop`

  This tool checks Ruby code for common errors, potential problems, and
  source code formatting issues.

  It can be customized to exclude particular cops/departments that should not
  be checked.

  If RuboCop knows any documentation relevant to an error, it will include
  a link in the comment, helping to more easily resolve the issue.

  Based on a patch by Cecilia Wei.

* :ref:`tool-rustfmt`

  This tool checks Go source code for common formatting issues. If it finds
  a file that needs to be run through :command:`rustfmt`, it will leave a
  comment recommending that the user runs this and re-uploads the diff.,

  Based on a patch by Jacob Blazusiak.

* :ref:`tool-shellcheck`

  This tool checks stanard shell scripts for common problems and misused
  commands.

  This supports :file:`*.bash`, :file:`*.bats`, :file:`*.dash`,
  :file:`*.ksh`, and :file:`*.sh` files.

  It can be customized to exclude particular error codes, and to change the
  minimum level of severity for any errors that should be reported.

  Based on a patch by Cecilia Wei.


Tool Enhancements
-----------------

* Most tools now include enhanced information when reporting errors in code,
  such as line and column numbers/ranges, severity warnings, and tool error
  codes.

* Most tools have improved report parsing, helping ensure that reports from
  tools are always represented in some way, even when they fail to check
  code.

* Tools that provide customizable file extensions for processing are now
  more forgiving when extra spaces or commas are present in the extension
  list.

* :ref:`tool-checkstyle` XML configuration has improved.

  Checkstyle now supports specifying the name of a bundled XML ruleset file
  (either ``google_checks.xml`` or ``sun_checks.xml``).

  This can be used instead of providing a full XML file during configuration.

  JAR files with custom XML files can also be provided in the
  :ref:`java_classpaths <worker-configuration-exe-paths>` and referenced
  during configuration.

* :ref:`tool-clang` now leaves comments when encountering syntax errors.

* :ref:`tool-cpplint` and :ref:`tool-cppcheck` now checks for more standard
  C/C++ source and header file patterns.

* :ref:`tool-pyflakes` now reports syntax errors.


Removed Features
================

* Buildbot is no longer supported.

  The support we had in prior releases was a prototype, and had a lot of
  issues. We are evaluating bringing Buildbot back as a separate integration
  for Review Board in the future.


Extensibility
=============

* Reworked how tools are built.

  All tools in the worker should now subclass
  :py:class:`~reviewbot.tools.base.tool.BaseTool`. This provides a lot of
  new functionality for helping to rapidly construct a tool and process
  incoming requests, including:

  * Specifying dependencies through
    :py:attr:`~reviewbot.tools.base.tool.BaseTool.exe_dependencies`.

  * Specifying supported file patterns through
    :py:attr:`~reviewbot.tools.base.tool.BaseTool.file_patterns`.

  * Providing a standard logger through
    :py:attr:`~reviewbot.tools.base.tool.BaseTool.logger`.

  * Determining whether a file can be checked through
    :py:meth:`~reviewbot.tools.base.tool.BaseTool.get_can_handle_file`.

  * Building base command lines for tool execution through
    :py:meth:`~reviewbot.tools.base.tool.BaseTool.execute`.

  The old legacy :py:class:`~reviewbot.tools.Tool` still exists, but is
  deprecated and scheduled to be removed in Review Bot 4.

* Added mixins for common tool functionality.

  This includes:

  * User-customizable file pattern options through
    :py:class:`~reviewbot.tools.base.mixins.FilePatternsFromSettingMixin`.

  * Full repository access and execution through
    :py:class:`~reviewbot.tools.base.mixins.FullRepositoryToolMixin`.

  * Java-based tool setup and execution through
    :py:class:`~reviewbot.tools.base.mixins.JavaToolMixin`.

* :py:meth:`File.comment() <reviewbot.processing.review.File.comment>`
  now accepts standard arguments for columns, error codes, severity levels,
  and extra listed metadata.

* Added a unit testing framework for tools.

  Unit tests can now be written for custom tools, providing helpers for
  writing simulation and integration tests.

  See :py:mod:`reviewbot.tools.testing.testcases` and
  :py:mod:`reviewbot.tools.testing.decorators` for information.


Extension Bug Fixes
===================

* Fixed a crash that could occur when checking worker status if the worker
  returns an error message or an unexpected result.


Worker Bug Fixes
================

Full Repository Access Tools
----------------------------

* Fixed applying patches containing new files, deleted files, and symlinks
  when using tools requiring full repository access. (:bug:`4678`,
  :bug:`4888`, :bug:`4912`, :bug:`4982`)

* Fixed applying patches containing DOS/Windows-based file paths on a
  Linux-based install of the worker.

* Binary files are now skipped when applying patches, rather than resulting
  in a possible error.

* Fixed race conditions when running multiple tools requiring full repository
  access on the same Git repository.

* Added validation of repository configuration.

  Any issues found in the configuration of a repository or a Review Board
  server now logs an error and will be skipped. In previous releases,
  errors could cause Review Bot to fail to start up until fixed.


Tool Compatibility
------------------

* All tools now only run for files they support. (:bug:`4885`)

* Fixed a bug in :ref:`tool-checkstyle` that could prevent filenames from
  being properly matched.

* :ref:`tool-clang` no longer fails to check code when encountering syntax
  errors.

* :ref:`tool-clang` now runs correctly on Python 3.

* :ref:`tool-clang` now always comments on the correct lines, rather than
  sometimes being offset.

* :ref:`tool-cppcheck` now runs without excluded file checks (:bug:`4671`)

* :ref:`tool-cppcheck` now respects the default setting for whether to report
  comments as issues to resolve.

* :ref:`tool-pydocstyle` now reports the full message for each error found,
  not just part of it.

* Fixed parsing issues that could occur with :ref:`tool-rubocop`.


Contributors
============

* Cecilia Wei
* Christian Hammond
* David Trowbridge
* Jacob Blazusiak
