.. default-intersphinx reviewbot4.0

============================
Review Bot 4.1 Release Notes
============================

**Release date**: April 7, 2026


Installation/Upgrade
====================

Follow our :ref:`installation guide <reviewbot-installation>` for installing
the Review Bot extension and worker.

To learn more, see:

* :ref:`Documentation <reviewbot-docs>`
* :pypi:`Review Bot Extension on PyPI <reviewbot-extension>`
* :pypi:`Review Bot Worker on PyPI <reviewbot-worker>`


Compatibility
=============

Review Bot 4.1 is compatible with Review Board 5.x - 7.x and Python 3.8 - 3.13.

* Fixed compatibility with :pypi:`setuptools` version 82.

  The ``setuptools`` package has removed the ``pkg_resources`` module, which
  was still used in the Review Bot worker. This has been fixed so that worker
  installations will work alongside ``setuptools`` version 82 or newer.


New Features
============

* Added a new setting for tools allowing them to notify only the review request
  author via e-mail.

* Added logging for long-running communication.

  A user recently reported a situation where a networking misconfiguration was
  causing long communication delays between the Review Bot extension and the
  RabbitMQ service, which caused the entire Review Board application to seem
  very slow.

  Communication delays of this sort will now show up as warnings in the Review
  Board log file if operations exceed 5 seconds, or as critical if operations
  exceed 15 seconds.


Tool Updates
============

A variety of the tools that Review Bot uses have changed their output format,
causing either poor display of comments or (in rare cases) parse errors.

* Updated ``cargo clippy`` and ``cargo test`` tools to correctly parse output
  from versions up to 1.94.

* Updated ``cppcheck`` tool to correctly parse output from versions up to 2.20.

* Updated ``go test`` and ``go vet`` tools to correctly parse output from
  versions up to 1.26.

* Updated ``rubocop`` tool to correctly parse output from versions up to 1.85.


Contributors
============

* Christian Hammond
* David Trowbridge
* Michelle Aubin
